# Check shifting motifs

For a convolutional neuron, if there are more than one shifting motif in the result generated by [code](https://github.com/wzthu/NeuronMotif/tree/master/nm/code) of NeuronMotif, we use the scripts in this folder to decoupling the sequence sample set twice.  


# How to use

## Copy this code folder for your DCNN model

Copy this folder to a new directory ND and 'cd ND'. For exmaple:

```
cp -r . ~/mymodel-2
cd ~/mymodel-2
```

## Model setting

Copy the model setting (modeldef.py) that you defined in [code](https://github.com/wzthu/NeuronMotif/tree/master/nm/code) to this folder

```
cp path/to/your/model/code/modeldef.py ./
cp path/to/your/model/code/weight.hdf5 ./
```

For a layer that may contains more than one shifting motif do following steps:

Take layer 10 as an example

##  link the ppm files of layers

```
bash runlink.sh /absolute/path/to/your/model/code/layer10 layer10 512
```
The sequence samples will linked in folder layer10

The parameter of runlink.sh:

1st, NeuronMotif result ppm directory xxx/xxx/xxx/layer?
2nd, layer?
3st, the number of the kernel

##  Download motif database

Take JASPAR as an example:

```
wget -O motifDB.txt  http://jaspar.genereg.net/download/CORE/JASPAR2020_CORE_vertebrates_redundant_pfms_meme.txt
```

## Run decoupling algorithm in NeuronMotif

Run NeuronMotif algorithm layer by layer with script 'run.layer.sh'.

The parameter of run.layer.sh:

* 1st, layer number, start from 1

* 2nd, kernels number in this layer

* 3rd, the max threads number to be used.

It depends on total CPU cores in this computer and is limited by memory size.
Be carefule to set large threads. The memory is easy to be stuffed.

For example:

Our server contains 28 cores server 128GB memory.

***Note***: only the last layer is done, the next layer can be started.

The script can be submited at the same directory at each node of the cluster.

```
bash run.layer.sh 10 512 20
```

##  Visualization

The parameter of run.layer.tt.sh:
1st, layer number, start from 1
2nd, kernels number in this layer
3rd, the max threads number to be used.
4th, is the model train by DeepSEA dataset, yes: 1, no: 0
It depends on total CPU cores in this computer and is limited by memory size.
Be carefule to set large threads. The memory is easy to be stuffed.

For example:

***28 cores server 128GB memory***

***Note: only the last layer is done, the next layer can be started.***
```
bash vis.layer.sh 10 512 5 0
```
